As required by statute, USAspending.gov  publishes congressional district information for award recipient (“legal entity”) addresses and for award places of performance; this information is available at the award transaction level (for prime award recipients and places of performance) and at the subaward level (for subaward recipients and places of performance). Among other things, this information allows House of Representatives members to determine which awards affect their district, and whether their district receives proportional money to other districts.
Congressional district data appear in XX-## format, where XX is the two-letter postal service state abbreviation and ## is the district number. For example, North Carolina’s second district appears as ‘NC-02’ in the data. States with a single at-large district use ‘00’ for the district number. U.S. territories with a non-voting representative use ‘98’ for the district number. A ‘90’ district number indicates that multiple districts apply to a location (e.g., for a place of performance that is state-wide in scope).
Congressional districts are redrawn at the state level every 10 years (when a new census takes place) or within those ten-year periods if a court case overturns a state’s districts and orders that they be redrawn. New districts take effect when a new Congress elected under them assumes office. For example, the 2020 census led to new congressional district boundaries that took effect when the election class of 2022 assumed office on January 3, 2023. Under this ‘congressional class’ framework, and given that court-ordered redistricting is relatively uncommon, most states had a consistent congressional district map from 2013-2022 and will retain their new map from 2023-2032.
Redistricting creates challenges for determining spending by district across time; most importantly, one cannot use the district number that applied at the time of the base award transaction if subsequent transactions occurred after redistricting. In addition to the comparability problem created by redistricting, there are other issues with the originally submitted district data provided by agencies and external source systems:
-   For contracts, congressional district data automatically propagates from base award transactions to subsequent transactions, even if new districts were in effect at the time of the later transactions. Thus, new dollars for later transactions are often not tied to the district that they actually affect. Additionally, even for new contracts, the recipient congressional district propagates from an Indefinite Delivery Vehicle (IDV) to all Delivery Orders or Blanket Purchase Agreements underneath the IDV, even if new districts were in effect at the time of the new award.
-   SAM.gov (the source of recipient congressional district data for contracts, subawards, and some financial assistance awards) does not update district data until a recipient renews their registration. Registration renewal is required on an annual basis for all active registrants and thus current district information for recipients may be out of date until around February 2024.
Because agencies own and are ultimately responsible for their data, USAspending.gov  does not overwrite agency-provided district data from the past with data corresponding to the current districts. Additionally, the original districts from records prior to redistricting have permanent historical value in communicating the district that applied at the time of the transaction. In light of these considerations, USAspending.gov  chose to keep the originally submitted district data while also deriving new fields across all award transactions corresponding to the current districts that apply to the recipient address and place of performance locations in the record, and to use the current district for most displays on the site. Advanced Search will allow users to choose between filtering based on the submitted district data versus the current district data.
The approach to deriving the current district uses the location information in the record to determine which district applies. Note that the data model allows for widely scoped places of performance in financial assistance, and that both recipient address and place of performance data sometimes only contain 5-digit zip codes (and the full 9-digit zip code is needed to isolate a single district in some cases). USAspending.gov  uses a ‘predominance approach’ in cases where multiple districts apply to a given location. For example, in a county-wide place of performance scenario, if 75% or more of the 9-digit zip codes in the county are tied to a given district, then that district will be chosen as the single dominant district for that location; if not, then the district number ‘90’ will be assigned (indicating multiple districts). An analogous process is used for 5-digit zip codes and city-wide scenarios.